1. Front Mol Neurosci. 2018 Aug 23;11:244. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2018.00244. 
eCollection 2018.

From Neural Crest Development to Cancer and Vice Versa: How p75(NTR) and 
(Pro)neurotrophins Could Act on Cell Migration and Invasion?

Wislet S(1), Vandervelden G(1), Rogister B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)GIGA-Neurosciences, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.

The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), also known as low-affinity nerve growth 
factor, belongs to the tumor necrosis factor family of receptors. p75NTR is 
widely expressed in the nervous system during the development, as well as, in 
the neural crest population, since p75NTR has been described as ubiquitously 
expressed and considered as a neural crest marker. Neural crest cells (NCCs) 
constitute an transient population accurately migrating and invading, with 
precision, defined sites of the embryo. During migration, NCCs are guided along 
distinct migratory pathways by specialized molecules present in the 
extracellular matrix or on the surfaces of those cells. Two main processes 
direct NCC migration during the development: (1) an epithelial-to-mesenchymal 
transition and (2) a process known as contact inhibition of locomotion. In 
adults, p75NTR remains expressed by NCCs and has been identified in an 
increasing number of cancer cells. Nonetheless, the regulation of the expression 
of p75NTR and the underlying mechanisms in stem cell biology or cancer cells 
have not yet been sufficiently addressed. The main objective of this review is 
therefore to analyze elements of our actual knowledge regarding p75NTR roles 
during the development (mainly focusing on neural crest development) and see how 
we can transpose that information from development to cancer (and vice versa) to 
better understand the link between p75NTR and cell migration and invasion. In 
this review, we successively analyzed the molecular mechanisms of p75NTR when it 
interacts with several coreceptors and/or effectors. We then analyzed which 
signaling pathways are the most activated or linked to NCC migration during the 
development. Regarding cancer, we analyzed the described molecular pathways 
underlying cancer cell migration when p75NTR was correlated to cancer cell 
migration and invasion. From those diverse sources of information, we finally 
summarized potential molecular mechanisms underlying p75NTR activation in cell 
migration and invasion that could lead to new research areas to develop new 
therapeutic protocols.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2018.00244
PMCID: PMC6115613
PMID: 30190671