1. Biomedicines. 2018 Mar 26;6(2):38. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines6020038.

NF-κB Activation in Lymphoid Malignancies: Genetics, Signaling, and Targeted 
Therapy.

Grondona P(1), Bucher P(2), Schulze-Osthoff K(3), Hailfinger S(4), Schmitt A(5).

Author information:
(1)Interfaculty Institute for Biochemistry, Eberhard Karls University of 
Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 4, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. 
paula.grondona@student.uni-tuebingen.de.
(2)Interfaculty Institute for Biochemistry, Eberhard Karls University of 
Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 4, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. 
philip.bucher@student.uni-tuebingen.de.
(3)Interfaculty Institute for Biochemistry, Eberhard Karls University of 
Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 4, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. KSO@uni-tuebingen.de.
(4)Interfaculty Institute for Biochemistry, Eberhard Karls University of 
Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 4, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. 
Stephan.Hailfinger@uni-tuebingen.de.
(5)Interfaculty Institute for Biochemistry, Eberhard Karls University of 
Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 4, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. 
anja.schmitt@ifib.uni-tuebingen.de.

The NF-κB transcription factor family plays a crucial role in lymphocyte 
proliferation and survival. Consequently, aberrant NF-κB activation has been 
described in a variety of lymphoid malignancies, including diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, and adult T-cell leukemia. Several factors, such as 
persistent infections (e.g., with Helicobacter pylori), the pro-inflammatory 
microenvironment of the cancer, self-reactive immune receptors as well as 
genetic lesions altering the function of key signaling effectors, contribute to 
constitutive NF-κB activity in these malignancies. In this review, we will 
discuss the molecular consequences of recurrent genetic lesions affecting key 
regulators of NF-κB signaling. We will particularly focus on the oncogenic 
mechanisms by which these alterations drive deregulated NF-κB activity and thus 
promote the growth and survival of the malignant cells. As the concept of a 
targeted therapy based on the mutational status of the malignancy has been 
supported by several recent preclinical and clinical studies, further insight in 
the function of NF-κB modulators and in the molecular mechanisms governing 
aberrant NF-κB activation observed in lymphoid malignancies might lead to the 
development of additional treatment strategies and thus improve lymphoma 
therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines6020038
PMCID: PMC6027339
PMID: 29587428

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.