1. Cancers (Basel). 2018 Mar 22;10(4):90. doi: 10.3390/cancers10040090.

Targeting the Hippo Pathway Is a New Potential Therapeutic Modality for 
Malignant Mesothelioma.

Sekido Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Oncology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, 1-1 
Kanokoden, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8681, Japan. ysekido@aichi-cc.jp.
(2)Department of Cancer Genetics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya 464-8681, Japan. ysekido@aichi-cc.jp.

Malignant mesothelioma (MM) constitutes a very aggressive tumor that arises from 
the pleural or peritoneal cavities and is highly refractory to conventional 
therapies. Several key genetic alterations are associated with the development 
and progression of MM including mutations of the CDKN2A/ARF, NF2, and BAP1 
tumor-suppressor genes. Notably, activating oncogene mutations are very rare; 
thus, it is difficult to develop effective inhibitors to treat MM. The NF2 gene 
encodes merlin, a protein that regulates multiple cell-signaling cascades 
including the Hippo pathway. MMs also exhibit inactivation of Hippo pathway 
components including LATS1/2, strongly suggesting that merlin-Hippo pathway 
dysregulation plays a key role in the development and progression of MM. 
Furthermore, Hippo pathway inactivation has been shown to result in constitutive 
activation of the YAP1/TAZ transcriptional coactivators, thereby conferring 
malignant phenotypes to mesothelial cells. Critical YAP1/TAZ target genes, 
including prooncogenic CCDN1 and CTGF, have also been shown to enhance the 
malignant phenotypes of MM cells. Together, these data indicate the Hippo 
pathway as a therapeutic target for the treatment of MM, and support the 
development of new strategies to effectively target the activation status of 
YAP1/TAZ as a promising therapeutic modality for this formidable disease.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers10040090
PMCID: PMC5923345
PMID: 29565815

Conflict of interest statement: The author received a collaboration grant from 
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, JAPAN), and Eisai Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, JAPAN). 
The founding sponsors had no role in the writing of the manuscript.