1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2018 Aug 28;12:273. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2018.00273. 
eCollection 2018.

Mechanism of BDNF Modulation in GABAergic Synaptic Transmission in Healthy and 
Disease Brains.

Porcher C(1)(2)(3), Medina I(1)(2)(3), Gaiarsa JL(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille University, Marseille, France.
(2)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U901, 
Marseille, France.
(3)Institut de Neurobiologie de la Méditerranée (INMED), Marseille, France.

In the mature healthy mammalian neuronal networks, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) 
mediates synaptic inhibition by acting on GABAA and GABAB receptors (GABAAR, 
GABABR). In immature networks and during numerous pathological conditions the 
strength of GABAergic synaptic inhibition is much less pronounced. In these 
neurons the activation of GABAAR produces paradoxical depolarizing action that 
favors neuronal network excitation. The depolarizing action of GABAAR is a 
consequence of deregulated chloride ion homeostasis. In addition to depolarizing 
action of GABAAR, the GABABR mediated inhibition is also less efficient. One of 
the key molecules regulating the GABAergic synaptic transmission is the brain 
derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF and its precursor proBDNF, can be 
released in an activity-dependent manner. Mature BDNF operates via its cognate 
receptors tropomyosin related kinase B (TrkB) whereas proBDNF binds the p75 
neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). In this review article, we discuss recent 
finding illuminating how mBDNF-TrkB and proBDNF-p75NTR signaling pathways 
regulate GABA related neurotransmission under physiological conditions and 
during epilepsy.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2018.00273
PMCID: PMC6121065
PMID: 30210299