1. Prog Neurobiol. 2012 Dec;99(3):191-225. doi: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2012.03.003. 
Epub 2012 Mar 22.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and intracellular traffic.

Bucci C(1), Bakke O, Progida C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences and Technologies 
(DiSTeBA), University of Salento, Via Provinciale Monteroni, 73100 Lecce, Italy. 
cecilia.bucci@unisalento.it

Mutations of genes whose primary function is the regulation of membrane traffic 
are increasingly being identified as the underlying causes of various important 
human disorders. Intriguingly, mutations in ubiquitously expressed membrane 
traffic genes often lead to cell type- or organ-specific disorders. This is 
particularly true for neuronal diseases, identifying the nervous system as the 
most sensitive tissue to alterations of membrane traffic. Charcot-Marie-Tooth 
(CMT) disease is one of the most common inherited peripheral neuropathies. It is 
also known as hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN), which comprises a 
group of disorders specifically affecting peripheral nerves. This peripheral 
neuropathy, highly heterogeneous both clinically and genetically, is 
characterized by a slowly progressive degeneration of the muscle of the foot, 
lower leg, hand and forearm, accompanied by sensory loss in the toes, fingers 
and limbs. More than 30 genes have been identified as targets of mutations that 
cause CMT neuropathy. A number of these genes encode proteins directly or 
indirectly involved in the regulation of intracellular traffic. Indeed, the list 
of genes linked to CMT disease includes genes important for vesicle formation, 
phosphoinositide metabolism, lysosomal degradation, mitochondrial fission and 
fusion, and also genes encoding endosomal and cytoskeletal proteins. This review 
focuses on the link between intracellular transport and CMT disease, 
highlighting the molecular mechanisms that underlie the different forms of this 
peripheral neuropathy and discussing the pathophysiological impact of membrane 
transport genetic defects as well as possible future ways to counteract these 
defects.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2012.03.003
PMCID: PMC3514635
PMID: 22465036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]