1. Transl Neurodegener. 2020 Jan 6;9:1. doi: 10.1186/s40035-019-0179-3.
eCollection  2020.

δ-secretase in neurodegenerative diseases: mechanisms, regulators and 
therapeutic opportunities.

Zhang Z(1), Tian Y(1), Ye K(2).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Neurology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430060 
People's Republic of China.
(2)2Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA.

Mammalian asparagine endopeptidase (AEP) is a cysteine protease that cleaves its 
protein substrates on the C-terminal side of asparagine residues. Converging 
lines of evidence indicate that AEP may be involved in the pathogenesis of 
several neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, and frontotemporal dementia. AEP is activated in the aging brain, 
cleaves amyloid precursor protein (APP) and promotes the production of amyloid-β 
(Aβ). We renamed AEP to δ-secretase to emphasize its role in APP fragmentation 
and Aβ production. AEP also cleaves other substrates, such as tau, α-synuclein, 
SET, and TAR DNA-binding protein 43, generating neurotoxic fragments and 
disturbing their physiological functions. The activity of δ-secretase is tightly 
regulated at both the transcriptional and posttranslational levels. Here, we 
review the recent advances in the role of δ-secretase in neurodegenerative 
diseases, with a focus on its biochemical properties and the transcriptional and 
posttranslational regulation of its activity, and discuss the clinical 
implications of δ-secretase as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© The Author(s). 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-019-0179-3
PMCID: PMC6943888
PMID: 31911834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.