1. Int J Mol Med. 2018 Mar;41(3):1201-1212. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2017.3352. Epub
2017  Dec 29.

Mutual regulation of the Hippo/Wnt/LPA/TGF‑β signaling pathways and their roles 
in glaucoma (Review).

Wang X(1), Huai G(1), Wang H(2), Liu Y(3), Qi P(4), Shi W(4), Peng J(1), Yang 
H(2), Deng S(2), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Medical School of University of 
Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, Sichuan 610054, P.R. China.
(2)Institute of Organ Transplantation, Sichuan Academy of Medical Science and 
Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 610072, P.R. China.
(3)91388 Military Hospital, Zhanjiang, Guangdong 524022, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Sichuan Academy of Medical Science and Sichuan 
Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 610072, P.R. China.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide and there is 
no effective treatment thus far. The trabecular meshwork has been identified as 
the major pathological area involved. Certain signaling pathways in the 
trabecular meshwork, including the Wnt, lysophosphatidic acid and transforming 
growth factor‑β pathways, have been identified as novel therapeutic targets in 
glaucoma treatment. Meanwhile, it has been reported that key proteins in these 
pathways, particularly the primary transcription regulator Yes‑associated 
protein (YAP) and transcriptional co‑activator with PDZ‑binding motif (TAZ), 
exhibit interactions with the Hippo pathway. The Hippo pathway, which was first 
identified in Drosophila, has drawn great focus with regard to various aspects 
of studies in recent years. One role of the Hippo pathway in the regulation of 
organ size was indicated by more recent evidence. Defining the relevant 
physiological function of the Hippo pathway has proven to be extremely 
complicated. Studies have ascribed a role for the Hippo pathway in an 
overwhelming number of processes, including cell proliferation, cell death and 
cell differentiation. Therefore, the present review aimed to unravel the roles 
of YAP and TAZ in the Hippo pathway and the pathogenesis of glaucoma. 
Furthermore, a new and creative study for the treatment of glaucoma is provided.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2017.3352
PMCID: PMC5819904
PMID: 29286147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]