1. Exp Ther Med. 2018 Oct;16(4):3275-3285. doi: 10.3892/etm.2018.6603. Epub 2018 
Aug 13.

Cellular signaling pathways regulating β-cell proliferation as a promising 
therapeutic target in the treatment of diabetes.

Jiang WJ(1), Peng YC(1), Yang KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Basic Medical College of Dali University, Dali, Yunnan 
671000, P.R. China.

It is established that a decrease in β-cell number and deficiency in the 
function of existing β-cells contribute to type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Therefore, a major focus of current research is to identify novel methods of 
improving the number and function of β-cells, so as to prevent and/or postpone 
the development of diabetes mellitus and potentially reverse diabetes mellitus. 
Based on prior knowledge of the above-mentioned causes, promising therapeutic 
approaches may include direct transplantation of islets, implantation and 
subsequent induced differentiation of progenitors/stem cells to β-cells, 
replication of pre-existing β-cells, or activation of endogenous β-cell 
progenitors. More recently, with regards to cell replacement and regenerative 
treatment for diabetes patients, the identification of cellular signaling 
pathways with related genes or corresponding proteins involved in diabetes has 
become a topic of interest. However, the majority of pathways and molecules 
associated with β-cells remain unresolved, and the specialized functions of 
known pathways remain unclear, particularly in humans. The current article has 
evaluated the progress of research on pivotal cellular signaling pathways 
involved with β-cell proliferation and survival, and their validity for 
therapeutic adult β-cell regeneration in diabetes. More efforts are required to 
elucidate the cellular events involved in human β-cell proliferation in terms of 
the underlying mechanisms and functions.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2018.6603
PMCID: PMC6143874
PMID: 30233674